Now, suppose that you're looking for a specific file, or a specific
set of files, a category of files in a given hierarchy of
directories. You have thousands of files on the directory and you
want to find special files among them.
Well,
you have one pattern for that, again a static method, a factory method, from
this Files factory class which is called the find method.
This find method is going to take a path, which is the root of the
directory under which you want to look for information.
It takes an integer.
This integer is the depth of exploration under this root, and it
takes a second element which is a BiPredicate.
This BiPredicate takes a path and a set of attributes.
This path represents every element the API is going to
visit under this hierarchy of directory.
So this path can represent a file or it can represent a
directory and this set of attributes will give you
information on the attributes of this path.
Is it a file, a directory?
Can you read it? Write it, etc.? But you can also get the creation date,
the last modification date, the owner of this file,
the last person who modified it.
This kind of information. In fact,
this attributes object also depends on the file system you
are on. So this BiPredicate is called with all the
information available on this path element,
whether it is a file or a directory.
So let us begin with a very basic and simple example.
You're looking for a special jpeg image in your set or directory.
This is the kind of BiPredicate you are going to create. Just called
path.endsWith('filename'), and you're good to go.
But you can do much more sophisticated stuff.
Suppose you want all the files that have been modified
or touched in the past two hours.
You can do that by writing this kind of code. From this attribute
object, you can get the creation time leveraging this Java 8 date and
time API, compare it to the current date to know if this file is the one you're looking for or not.